#Wuchshüllenrechner

In many forest enterprises the number of game animals is often too high and
requires the protection of young forest plants to prevent deer browsing. Then
the question occurs, whether either fencing or the use of tree shelters is
economically more favourable. In many cases the large number of in uencing
factors and the complex econometric problem cause a wrong decision, which is
forest aesthetically unsatisfactory and results in high expenses. Because of
this Dr. Anton Hammer provided a solution to improve the situation, when he
published his specialist article with the title “Entscheidungshilfe zu: Zaun
oder Einzelschutz mit Wuchshüllen” in 2012.

The described decision support system was developed as a software solution with
the application name “Wuchshüllenrechner”. This application is based on the
named specialist article and offers a German version with an English
translation. Besides the default values it is possible to enter the particular
cost rates of the forest enterprise to compare the fence with the tree
shelters. Afterwards the result is illustrated and explained in a descriptive
chart view. With the parameters tree species, fence length (perimeter) and
number of forest plants the users can derive a rational protection
recommendation. Additionally, the application allows the users to playfully
test and analyse silvicultural and economic conditions with variable input data.

During the development of the “Wuchshüllenrechner”, it was important to design
a user-friendly and a platform-independent application. Although the software
particularly addresses the management as well as the controllers of a forest
enterprise, the application is supposed to support the foresters. Especially
the cost translation dialogs support users to calculate the required cost
rates. Because the “Wuchshüllenrechner” is open source software, it may be
used and modified for free.
